---
layout: post
title: The Falling Man
date: 2005-09-11 22:48:40.000000000 +02:00
categories:
- world news
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
author:
  login: shanson
  email: papascott-wp@gmail.com
  display_name: PapaScott
  first_name: Scott
  last_name: Hanson
---
<p><a href="http://www.papascott.de/archives/2001/09/12/">It's been 4 years</a>, maybe I can handle the details now. <a href="http://www.esquire.com/features/articles/2003/030903_mfe_falling_1.html">Esquire: The Falling Man</a></p>
<blockquote><p>They began jumping not long after the first plane hit the North Tower, not long after the fire started. They kept jumping until the tower fell. They jumped through windows already broken and then, later, through windows they broke themselves. They jumped to escape the smoke and the fire; they jumped when the ceilings fell and the floors collapsed; they jumped just to breathe once more before they died. They jumped continually, from all four sides of the building, and from all floors above and around the building's fatal wound. They jumped from the offices of Marsh & McLennan, the insurance company; from the offices of Cantor Fitzgerald, the bond-trading company; from Windows on the World, the restaurant on the 106th and 107th floors - the top. For more than an hour and a half, they streamed from the building, one after another, consecutively rather than en masse, as if each individual required the sight of another individual jumping before mustering the courage to jump himself or herself. One photograph, taken at a distance, shows people jumping in perfect sequence, like parachutists, forming an arc composed of three plummeting people, evenly spaced. Indeed, there were reports that some tried parachuting, before the force generated by their fall ripped the drapes, the tablecloths, the desperately gathered fabric, from their hands. They were all, obviously, very much alive on their way down, and their way down lasted an approximate count of ten seconds. They were all, obviously, not just killed when they landed but destroyed, in body though not, one prays, in soul.</p></blockquote>
<p>Yes, I can read the entire article without breaking down. I hope that's because I've become harder and not because I've forgotten the day.</p>
