---
layout: post
title: Dog Food
date: 2002-03-18 09:03:07.000000000 +01:00
categories:
- General
tags: []
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
author:
  login: shanson
  email: papascott-wp@gmail.com
  display_name: PapaScott
  first_name: Scott
  last_name: Hanson
---
<p>Time to eat my own dog food, at least at home. I administer a number of FreeBSD servers at work, but I don't have experience with a FreeBD workstation or managing a complete selection of ports. Now I'm going to try to run FreeBSD on my main workstation at home, in place of Debian GNU/Linux. I actually tried this already last year, but got frustrated keeping my ports up-to-date over my ISDN line. Now that I know about the portupgrade utility, that should be a lot easier</p>
<p>I already downloaded the 4 CD set for FreeBSD 4.5 at work. I can install a base system in my sleep, and after a couple of tries I got the standard XFree86 3.x going for my Elsa Gladiac graphic card and USB mouse.</p>
<p>The first packages I installed were cvsup (to keep my src and ports directories up-to-date), ncftp (to quickly find and download things) and portupgrade. I installed the kde packages from the CD (unfortunately, the supplementary kde packages are missing from the CD, so those I had to download). That gave me Konqueror and KMail, so I could surf and read mail.</p>
<p>I then decided what basic programs I wanted to build ports for first, so I could download the distfiles overnight. I need browsers (mozilla, galeon), apache (with SSL, php, mod_perl), editors (vim, xemacs) and graphic tools (gimp, ImageMagick), and an up-to-date KDE. With 'portupgrade -NRF' (install new ports, plus all they depend on, fetch but do not build), I started downloading at 11pm, and it finished at 7:30, when Christopher I were eating breakfast.</p>
